# Music Player

This program is a music player application that allows the user to browse, play, and manage MP3 files on their computer with a simple GUI.

## Features

This music player application has a number of features for browsing and playing music from a music library within the GUI. In the GUI, the user can view their music library by artist, album, or track, and can switch between these views using a dropdown menu. Double-clicking on an artist or album in the artist or album view will open a page with more detailed information about the artist or album, and allow the user to play all of the tracks from that artist or album by double clicking on the desired song. When viewing their library by track, the user can also double click on a specific track to play it. 

In addition to browsing and playing music from the library, the application also allows the user to create and manage playlists. The user can create a new playlists, delete playlists, add tracks to playlists from their music library, remove tracks, and can play all tracks in a playlist in the order they were added to the playlist. Each playlist created is stored in an `m3u` file, one of the most common playlist file formats. The application also includes a settings page where the user can see the currently added library file locations, and add other file locations to search for music. If the user is on a Windows operating system, when the application is started, the program will automatically search for and load all playlists of filetype `m3u` and songs of filetype `mp3` in `C:\Users\<user>\Music`.

## Getting Started

This project requires prerequisites which can be installed using the following command.

### Prerequisites

This project requires prerequisites which can be installed using the following command.

```
pip install PyQt5 pyqtdarktheme eyeD3 python-magic-bin
```

*Note: PyQt5 is known to have some issues with Python 3.10, so this program was developed and tested in 3.9.13, the final regular maintenance release of Python 3.9. If you are having trouble installing any of the above packages, try rolling back to Python 3.9*

### Running

The music player can be started by running the file `gui.py` with the following command while in the project directory
```
python gui.py
```
### Using the app

* The dropdown menu in the upper left can be used to navigate between tracks, artists, and albums
* Navigate between the music library and playlists by clicking on the Library and Playlist buttons at the top of the screen
* To add a file location to the music library, click the settings button in the upper right corner to access settings, then click on 'Add Location' and select the desired folder
* To play a song, double click it, and all the media buttons of a normal music player will appear at the bottom of the screen
* When viewing all artists, double clicking on an artist will bring up the artist page with a list of the albums by that artist. An album can then be double clicked to select it, and the songs in that album can be played songs with another double click
* When viewing all albums, you can select an album by double clicking it and then doubling clicking the desired song to play 
* The next song in the sequence have selected (album, playlist, etc.) will automatically play when the current song is finished

# Future Directions

   One of the next things I would like to work on is the ability to shuffle-play playlists. This is a very common part of music players that was not implemented in this application. Allowing users to shuffle a playlist would bring more convenienve to users and elevate the functionality of the program to the next level. Another feature I would like to work on is suggested playlists. Suggested playlists would be playlists automatically generated by the application based on the user's musical interests, mainly based around genre interests. The user would be able to select their interests in the settings menu, and the application would then automatically create playlists with the songs in the user's library that align with the user's musical interests.
